>> Wooduff: SECURITY LAPSES AT
U.S. AIRPORTS, ACCUSATIONS TTHA
T.S.A. SCREENERS ARE FAILING TO
CATCH BANNED ITEMS AT
CHECKPOINTS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, WHAT
BAGHDAD NEEDS TO DEFEAT ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS, IRAQ'S
AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S. ON A PATH
FORWARD TO UNITE HIS COUNTRY'S
FRACTURED SECURITY FORCES.
>> IT'S NOT AN IRAQI FIGHT
ALONE, JUDY.
THIS IS A REGIONAL FIGHT WITH
GLOBAL IMPLICATIONS.
>> Wooduff: PLUS, WATER FOR
WEED, MARIJUANA GROWRSE
AGGRAVATE A HISTORIC DROUGHT IN
CALIFORNIA, TO FEED THEIR
THIRSTY PLANTS.
>> WE GO AFTER PEOPLE WHO ARE
ILLEGALLY GROWING MARIJUANA AND
STEALING WATER.
>> BECAUSE THE SYSTEM HASN'T
PROVIDED REGULATION, THERE'S NO
WAY FOR ENFORCEMENT TO SAY WHO
IS GOOD FARMERS, AND WHO IS BAD.
>> Wooduff: AND, THE FUZZY MATH
OF HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION RATES.
CONFUSING NUMBERS THAT DIFFER
FROM WHAT SCHOOLS REPORT.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: A TEXAS POLICE
OFFICER HAS RESIGNED AMID A
NATIONAL FUROR OVER HIS CONDUCT
DURING A NEIGHBORHOOD
DISTURBANCE.
AN ATTORNEY FOR ERIC CASEBOLT
SAYS HE'S QUITTING THE MCKINNEY,
TEXAS, POLICE FORCE INCH A VIDEO
THAT WENT VIRAL, HE WAS SEEN
THROWING A BLACK TEENAGE GIRL TO
THE GROUND AND POINTING HIS GUN
AT OTHER BLACK YOUTHS.
>> Woodruff: A FEDERAL APPEALS
COURT IN NEW ORLEANS TODAY
UPHELD KEY PROVISIONS OF A
STRICT ABORTION LAW IN TEXAS.
THE UPSHOT COULD BE THAT ONLY A
HANDFUL OF ABORTION CLINICS WILL
CONTINUE OPERATING IN THE STATE.
THEY'LL HAVE TO MEET HOSPITAL-
LEVEL STANDARDS TO DO SO.
ABORTION RIGHTS SUPPORTERS SAY
THEY'LL APPEAL TO THE U.S.
SUPREME COURT, WHICH ALREADY PUT
THE LAW ON HOLD ONCE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TOUTED HIS "AFFORDABLE CARE ACT"
FOR A SECOND DAY, AS HE AWAITED
A SUPREME COURT DECISION THAT
COULD UNDERMINE THE LAW.
THE PRESIDENT SPOKE IN
WASHINGTON AND SAID THE LAW HAS
BECOME PART OF THE FABRIC OF THE
NATION, IMPROVING LIVES AND
PROVING ITS CRITICS WRONG.
>> DESPITE THE CONSTANT DOOM AND
GLOOM PREDICTIONS, THE UNENDING
CHICKEN LITTLE WARNINGS, THAT
SOMEHOW MAKING HEALTH INSURANCE
FAIR AND EASIER TO BUY WOULD
LEAD TO THE END OF FREEDOM, THE
END OF OUR AMERICAN WAY OF LIFE!
LO AND BEHOLD, IT DID NOT
HAPPEN.
NONE OF THIS CAME TO PASS.
>> Woodruff: YESTERDAY, THE
PRESIDENT SAID THE SUPREME COURT
NEVER SHOULD HAVE ACCEPTED THE
LATEST CHALLENGE TO THE LAW.
IT INVOLVES THE ISSUE OF
SUBSIDIES AND STATE INSURANCE
EXCHANGES.
THE COURT IS DUE TO RULE BY
MONTH'S END.
THE PRESIDENT WON A ROUND TODAY
IN THE LEGAL FIGHT OVER HIS PUSH
TO CUT CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS
FROM POWER PLANTS.
A FEDERAL APPEALS COURT IN
WASHINGTON THREW OUT LAWSUITS BY
15 STATES AND A MAJOR COAL
COMPANY.
THE RULING SAID THE SUITS ARE
PREMATURE BECAUSE THE
REGULATIONS ARE NOT YET FINAL.
GENERAL MOTORS COULD FACE
CRIMINAL CHARGES FOR A LONG
DELAY IN RECALLING
POTENTIALLY FAULTY IGNITION
SWITCHES.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
REPORTS THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
IS WEIGHING POSSIBLE WIRE FRAUD
CHARGES, BUT ALSO HOPES TO REACH
A SETTLEMENT.
G.M. ULTIMATELY DID RECALL 2.6
MILLION VEHICLES.
THE SWITCHES ARE LINKED TO MORE
THAN 100 DEATHS.
IN EGYPT A COURT IN CAIRO
SENTENCED 11 MEN TO DEATH TODAY,
FOR FOMENTING A DEADLY RIOT AT A
SOCCER GAME IN 2012.
MORE THAN 70 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
IN THE INCIDENT.
IN ADDITION TO THOSE SENTENCED
TO DEATH, 40 OTHERS RECEIVED
JAIL TERMS TODAY AND 21 WERE
ACQUITTED.
BUT RELATIVES OF SOME OF THE
VICTIMS SAID THEY WANTED MORE.
>> (translated): THERE
IS NO
>> (translated):
THERE IS NO JUSTICE.
JUSTICE.
THE FORMER HEAD OF PORT SAID
SECURITY ONLY RECEIVED A FIVE
YEAR JAIL SENTENCE AND HE IS THE
MAIN CAUSE OF THE DISASTER.
THERE IS NO JUSTICE, THIS IS
UNFAIR.
CAN BE APPEALED.
>> Woodruff: TODAY'S VERDICTS
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A WOMAN
WITH A RARE, DRUG-RESISTANT FORM
OF TUBERCULOSIS IS NOW IN STABLE
CONDITION AT THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH IN
MARYLAND.
MEANWHILE, HEALTH OFFICIALS ARE
TRACKING DOWN ALL WHO HAD
PROLONGED CONTACT WITH HER, BUT
THEY SAY THE RISK IS LOW.
THE WOMAN ARRIVED IN CHICAGO,
FROM INDIA, IN APRIL AND ALSO
VISITED MISSOURI AND TENNESSEE.
H.S.B.C.-- EUROPE'S LARGEST
BANK-- WILL CUT 50,000 JOBS
WORLDWIDE.
IT'S MOVING TO REDUCE COSTS AND
SELL OFF OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
AND BRAZIL.
INSTEAD, IT WILL FOCUS MORE ON
ASIA.
H.S.B.C. OPERATES IN MORE THAN
70 COUNTRIES AND HAS ROUGHLY 51
MILLION CUSTOMERS.
WALL STREET LOOKED FOR SOME
MOTIVATION TODAY, BUT DIDN'T
FIND MUCH.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST TWO POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
17,760.
THE NASDAQ FELL SEVEN POINTS.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED ABOUT
A POINT.
AND THE DAILY WHITE HOUSE
BRIEFING RECORDED A FIRST TODAY:
IT WAS INTERRUPTED MIDWAY
THROUGH, BY A BOMB THREAT.
JOURNALISTS AND CAMERA CREWS
HAD TO LEAVE SO GUARDS AND DOGS
COULD SWEEP THE AREA.
BUT, PRESS SECRETARY JOSH
EARNEST SAID IT TURNED OUT TO BE
A FALSE ALARM.
>> BASED ON A THREAT THAT THE
SECRET SERVICE RECEIVED FROM
ANOTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT
ORGANIZATION ABOUT THE PRESS
AREA AT THE WHITE HOUSE, THE
PRESS AREA AT THE WHITE HOUSE
WAS EVACUATED FOR THE SAFETY OF
ALL OF US AND THE SECRET
SERVICE, USING RESOURCES THAT
THEY KEEP HERE ON THE COMPLEX,
WAS ABLE TO QUICKLY SEARCH THIS
LOCATION AND CONCLUDE THAT IT
WAS SAFE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
REMAINED IN THE WHITE HOUSE, AND
NO OTHER PARTS THEOF BUILDING
WERE AFFECTED.
THERE WERE SIMILAR THREATS AT
TWO SENATE OFFICE BUILDINGS, BUT
THERE'S NO EVIDENCE THEY WERE
RELATED.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
ERRORS AND LAPSES IN SECURITY AT
AIRPORT CHECKPOINTS;
FORMER HOUSE SPEAKER DENNIS
HASTERT PLEADS NOT GUILTY TO
FRAUD CHARGES;
A STRATEGY TO FIGHT BACK ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS IN IRAQ;
MIGRANTS ARRESTED AND DETAINED
IN LIBYA AFTER FAILING TO CROSS
THE MEDITERRANEAN;
WHY MARIJUANA PLANTS ARE
CONTRIBUTING TO CALIFORNIA'S
DROUGHT;
CONFLICTING REPORTS ON THE
NUMBERS OF HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATES;
AND, A COMMA QUEEN'S MISSION TO
ENFORCE CLARITY AND PURPOSE IN
WRITING.
>> Wooduff: THE U.S. SENATE TOOK
A HARD LOOK AT AIRPORT SAFETY
TODAY, AND TWO NEW ACCOUNTS
QUESTIONING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
THE TRANSPORTATION SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION.
THE SENATE HEARING CAME A WEEK
AFTER THE LEAK OF A DAMNING
REPORT ON THE T.S.A.'S FAILURES.
THE FEDERAL DEPARTMENT OF
HOMELAND SECURITY, T.S.A.'S
PARENT AGENCY, FOUND FAKE
EXPLOSIVES, WEAPONS AND OTHER
BANNED ITEMS WENT UNNOTICED IN
67 OF 70 TESTS.
TODAY, NEBRASKA REPUBLICAN
SENATOR BEN SASSE QUESTIONED
JOHN ROTH, THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
WHO WROTE THE REPORT.
>> DO YOU THINK IT'S POSSIBLE
THAT T.S.A. REALLY COULD HAVE
NOT UNDERSTOOD HOW GRAVE THEIR
PROBLEM WAS BEFORE LAST WEEK'S
LEAKED REPORT?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE THINK ABOUT ALL THE TIME.
I MEAN, DO THEY TRULY UNDERSTAND
THE NATURE OF THE RISK THAT THEY
FACE?
CANDIDLY, I WORRY ABOUT THAT.
>> Wooduff: OTHERS SAID THEY'RE
WORRIED THAT A PUSH FOR REDUCED
AIRPORT WAIT TIMES HAS ACTUALLY
HARMED SECURITY.
REBECCA ROERING IS ASSISTANT
T.S.A. DIRECTOR AT THE
MINNEAPOLIS-ST. PAUL AIRPORT.
>> T.S.A. IS HANDING OUT PRE-
CHECK STATUS LIKE HALLOWEEN
CANDY IN AN EFFORT TO EXPEDITE
PASSENGERS AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE, DESPITE SELF-ADMITTED
SECURITY GAPS THAT ARE BEING
CREATED BY THE PROCESS.
>> Wooduff: MEANWHILE, A SECOND
INSPECTOR GENERAL'S REPORT FINDS
T.S.A.'S VETTING OF AVIATION
WORKERS IS "GENERALLY
EFFECTIVE".
BUT, IT DID FAIL TO IDENTIFY 73
EMPLOYEES WITH UNSPECIFIED LINKS
TO TERRORISM.
FOR ALL THAT, MISSOURI DEMOCRAT
CLAIRE MCCASKILL OFFERED A
PARTIAL DEFENSE OF THE SECURITY
AGENCY, AT TODAY'S HEARING.
>> WE'VE GOTTA REMEMBER-- AS WE
ALL SIT AND POUND THE DESK ABOUT
HOW BAD T.S.A. IS-- WE KEEP
CUTTING THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THEY
HAVE.
AND WE ASK THEM TO DO MORE AND
DO IT BETTER.
>> Wooduff: THE HEARING WAS CUT
SHORT AFTER A TELEPHONED BOMB
THREAT THAT TURNED OUT TO BE A
HOAX.
JOINING ME IS JACK RILEY, VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE RAND
CORPORATION'S NATIONAL SECURITY
DIVISION, HE FOCUSES ON
TRANSPORTATION AND BORDER
SECURITY.
MR. RILEY, THANK YOU FOR BEING
WITH US.
HOW CONCERNED SHOULD THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE BE?
THESE LAPSES SOUND PRETTY
SERIOUS.
>> WELL, I UNDERSTAND WHY THE
REPORTS ARE ALARMING, BUT I
THINK THE THING PEOPLE NEED TO
KEEP IN MIND IS THAT THERE ARE A
NUMBER OF OTHER LAYERS THAT ARE
IN PLACE TO HELP KEEP PLANES
SAFE, NOT THE LEAST OF WHICH IS
COCKPIT DOORS ARE LOCKED,
PASSENGERS AND CREW KNOW THAT
THEY HAVE TO INTERVENE, AND ON
MANY FLIGHTS AN UNKNOWN
PERCENTAGE, BUT IN FLIGHTS WE
HAVE AIR MARSHALS PRESENT.
SO THERE ARE A LOT OF OTHER
LAYERS TO SECURITY AND FOCUSING
SIMPLY ON ONE SEGMENT I THINK IS
A DISRVICSEE.
>> Woodruff: SO WHEN THEY SAY
67 OUT OF 70 CONTRABAND ITEMS
GOT THROUGH UNDETECTED BY TSA,
THAT DOESN'T SOUND CONCERNING?
>> OH, NO QUESTION IT'S AN
ABYSMAL PERFORMANCE, BUT THE
AVERAGE TSA DURING THE COURSE OF
A WEEK PROBABLY ENCOUNTERS
THOUSANDS IF NOT TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PASSENGERS, AND
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR EXTREMELY
RARE CONTRABAND AND EXTREMELY
RARE KINDS OF STUFF THAT MOST OF
THEM PROBABLY NEVER SEE,
CERTAINLY IN THE COURSE OF A
WEEK, MAYBE IN THE COURSE OF
THAT CAREER, SO I THINK ONE OF
THE THINGS WE CAN DO TO HELP
NARROW DOWN THE LIST AND IMPROVE
EFFECTIVENESS IS TO REDUCE THE
SET OF THINGS THAT WE HAVE THEM
LOOKING FOR AT THE CHECKPOINTS,
LIQUIDS AND SOME OF THE OTHER
KINDS OF CONTRABAND THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR PROBABLY DON'T NEED
TO BE ON THE LIST AT THIS POINT.
>> ARE YOU SAYING THAT BECAUSE
THOSE DON'T POSE A THREAT THAT
IT WAS THOUGHT THEY DID?
>> YEAH, I THINK THERE'S GROWING
CONSENSUS THAT THE NON-METALLIC
LIQUID BOMB ISSUE PROBABLY
WASN'T AS SEVERE AS PEOPLE
THOUGHT IT WAS BACK IN 2006 OR
2007 WHEN THE RESTRICTIONS FIRST
STARTED BEING PUT IN PLACE.
THERE'S NEVER REALLY BEEN A
CREDIBLE DEMONSTRATION OF THE
ABILITY TO GENERATE THAT KIND OF
BOMB OUTSIDE OF LABORATORY
CONDITIONS, BUT ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT IT DOES IS PROVIDES
A TREMENDOUS DISTRACTION TO TSA
PERSONNEL AS THEY LOOK FOR
LIQUIDS AND OTHER KINDS OF
THINGS AT THE CHECKPOINTS.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT SHOULD
THEY BE FOCUSING ON?
>> I THINK WHAT THEY SHOULD BE
FOCUSING ON ARE THE THINGS THAT
CAN BE USED TO HELP BRING DOWN
PLANES VERY EFFECTIVELY, AND
THAT REALLY IS A VERY SMALL SET
OF GUNS AND BOMBS, THE VERY
KINDS OF THINGS THAT
UNFORTUNATELY THEY MISSED IN THE
TESTING.
>> Woodruff: JUST QUICKLY,
JACK RILEY, THE OTHER REPORT
THAT'S COME OUT INDICATES THAT I
GUESS OUT OF THE LARGE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE, 900,000 ACTIVE AIRPORT
WORKERS, THEY FOUND 73 OF THEM
HAD UNSPECIFIED LINKS TO
TERRORISM.
SHOULD PEOPLE BE CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT?
>> YOU KNOW, I JUST HAD A CHANCE
TO READ THAT REPORT BEFORE I
CAME DOWN FOR THE INTERVIEW.
IT'S A LITTLE TOUGH TO SAY.
I WOULD SAY THAT TSA HAS THROUGH
THE AIRPORTS AND ITS OWN
SECURITY FORCE A VERY LARGE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE THAT NEED TO BE
CLEARED AND HAVE BACKGROUND
CHECKS ON.
WHAT I'M LOOKING FOR IS THEIR
REACTION TO THE I.G.'S REPORT,
AND WHAT I HEARD TODAY WAS
OWNERSHIP OF THE LAPSES.
I'M FAIRLY CONFIDENT THAT THE
NEW STRAITER OF TSA IS GOING TO
GET ON THIS VERY QUICKLY, AND I
DOUBT WE'LL BE TALKING ABOUT IT
THE NEXT TIME THERE IS THIS KIND
OF INVESTIGATION.
>> Woodruff: SO IF ONE IS TO
ASK YOU: WHAT'S THE MAIN THING
TSA NEEDS TO DO DIFFERENTLY
GOING FORWARD, WHAT WOULD YOU
SAY?
>> I THINK THE MAIN THING IS
REDUCING THE SET OF THINGS
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR, MAKING SURE
THAT THEY HAVE A FOCUSED
MISSION, LOOKING FOR THE GUNS
AND BOMBS AND STEPPING BACK FROM
SOME OF THE THINGS LIKE KNIVES
AND OTHER SMALL OBJECTS THAT
REALLY DON'T POSE A THREAT TO
BRINGING DOWN THE PLANE.
>> JACK RILEY, VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE RAND CORPORATION, WE THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR TALKING WITH
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: FORMER SPEAKER OF
THE U.S. HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES DENNIS HASTERT
TODAY PLEADED NOT GUILTY TO
CHARGES THAT HE PAID OUT
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN HUSH
MONEY AND LIED ABOUT IT TO THE
F.B.I.
THIS WAS HASTERT'S FIRST PUBLIC
APPEARANCE SINCE NEWS OF HIS
INDICTMENT NEARLY TWO WEEKS AGO.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM TAKES IT FROM
THERE.
>> Brangham: WE GET MORE ON
TODAY'S COURT APPEARANCE FROM
JON SEIDEL, HE COVERS FEDERAL
COURTS FOR THE CHICAGO SUN-TIMES
AND WAS AT THE HEARING THIS
AFTERNOON.
JON SEIDEL, I WONDER IF YOU
WOULD TELL ME, LEGALLY SPEAKING,
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE COURTROOM
TODAY?
>> TODAY'S HEARING WAS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
TODAY WAS A DAY FOR DENNIS
HASTERT TO WALK INTO THE
COURTROOM AND ENTER A PLEA.
HE PLEADED NOT GUILTY.
HE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HE HAD
RECEIVED THE INDICTMENT AGAINST
HIM AND WAIVED THE READING.
WE ALSO HAD HIS ATTORNEYS,
THOMAS GREEN, FILE AN APPEARANCE
ON HIS BEHALF.
AND WE ALSO HAD THE JUDGE
ACKNOWLEDGE SOME OF THE
CONFLICTS THAT HAD BEEN
PREVIOUSLY REPORTED WHEN IT
COMES TO CONTRIBUTIONS THAT THEr
JUDGE MADE WHILE HE WAS A
PRIVATE CITIZEN TO MR. HASTERT'S
CAMPAIGN, AS WELL AS HIS WORK
FOR THE SAME LAW FIRM THAT
MR. HASTERT'S SON WORKS FOR.
>> Brangham: WE'LL GET TO THE
ISSUE OF THE JUDGE'S CONFLICT IN
A MOMENT, BUT FOR PEOPLE WHO
HAVE NOT BEEN FOLLOWING THIS
CASE CLOSELY, CAN YOU LAY OUT,
WHAT HAS DENNIS HASTERT BEEN
ACCUSED OF DOING?
>> MR. HASTERT FACES A VERY
OBSCURE CHARGE OF STRUCTURING
BANK WITHDRAWALS AS WELL AS
LYING TO THE F.B.I.
THEY SAID HE AGREED TO PAY $3.
5 MILLION OF HUSH MONEY TO A
MAN, A LONGTIME ACQUAINTANCE
FROM YORKVILLE, TO COVER UP FOR
PAST MISCONDUCT AGAINST THAT
ACQUAINTANCE.
HE WAS INITIALLY TAKING OUT
$50,000 FROM HIS BANK ACCOUNT.
WHEN THE BANKS BEGAN TO QUESTION
HIM ABOUT THOSE WITHDRAWALS, HE
BEGAN MAKING WITHDRAWALS OF LESS
THAN $10,000.
THE FEDS SAY HE DID SO TO AVOID
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ON
TRANSACTIONS OF $10,000 OR MORE.
THAT IS WHAT HE'S ACTUALLY
CHARGED WITH.
AND IN DECEMBER OF LAST YEAR,
WHEN FEDERAL AGENTS ASKED HIM
ABOUT THOSE WITHDRAWALS AND
ASKED HIM IF HE DID SO BECAUSE
HE DIDN'T TRUST THE BANKS, HE
SAID, YEAH, THAT'S WHAT I WAS
DOING, I WAS KEEPING THE CASH
SOME THIS ALL REVOLVES AROUND
THIS ALLEGED PRIOR MISCONDUCT
WITH SOMEBODY FROM YORKVILLE
THAT HE APPARENTLY AGREED TO PAY
$3.5 MILLION TO, BUT THE ACTUAL
CHARGE IS STRUCTURING $952,000
WORTH OF WITHDRAWALS OUT OF HIS
BANK.
>>.
>> Brangham: YOU REPORTED
TODAY THAT MR. HASTERT MIGHT BE
UNDER SOME KIND OF PRESSURE TO
AGREE TO A PLEA DEAL OF SORTS.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN THAT A LITTLE
BIT MORE?
>> WELL, IT'S REALLY MORE
SPECULATION BY LOCAL ATTORNEYS
WHO ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW
THIS CASE IS GOING TO PLAY OUT.
THE INDICTMENT IS VERY SCANT
WHEN IT COMES TO DETAILS.
THERE IS SOME THOUGHT THAT
PROSECUTORS COULD HAVE BEEN MUCH
MORE EXPLICIT WHEN YOU LOOK AT
SOME OF THE LEAKS ABOUT WHAT
SOME OF THIS MISCONDUCT COULD BE
RELATED TO.
IT COULD BE THAT MR. HASTERT
WANTS TO AVOID A TRIAL BECAUSE
THE THOUGHT IS IF HE GOES TO
TRIAL, WE CAN EXPECT TO SEE A
LOT OF THESE DETAILS FINALLY
COME OUT IN A COURTROOM.
THAT COULD PUT PRESSURE ON
MR. HASTERT TO AGREE TO SOME
KIND OF PLEA DEAL.
IN FACT, WE'VE HAD ONE LOCAL
PROMINENT ATTORNEY HERE
SPECULATE THAT MR. HASTERT CUT A
DEAL.
BUT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE
HE HAS ABSOLUTELY NO INSIGHT
INTO THAT.
THAT'S PURE SPECULATION AMONG
THE CRIMINAL BAR HERE.
>> Brangham: YOU MENTIONED
EARLIER THAT THIS JUDGE HAS A
RATHER UNIQUE RELATIONSHIP WITH
MR. HASTERT.
HAVE PEOPLE ARGUED THAT THE FACT
THIS JUDGE MADE DONATIONS TO
HASTERT'S CAMPAIGN AND THEN
WORKED AT ONE POINT WITH DENNIS
HASTERT'S SON, THAT HE SHOULD BE
REMOVED FROM THIS CASE?
>> WELL, NOBODY HAS LEGALLY
ARGUED THAT.
TODAY WAS THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY
FOR THAT TO HAPPEN, BUT THE
JUDGE HIMSELF WAS FIRST PERSON
TO BRING IT UP.
JUDGE DURKIN MADE TWO DONATIONS
WHILE HE WAS IF PRIVATE PRACTICE
BEFORE HE BECAME A JUDGE TO
MR. HASTERT'S CAMPAIGN.
THE DONATIONS TOTALED I BELIEVE
ABOUT $1,500.
HE'S ALSO WORKED FOR THE SAME
LAW FIRM WHERE MR. HASTERT'S SON
IS NOW A PARTER IN.
ADDITIONALLY, JUDGE DURKIN'S
BROTHER JIM DURKIN IS THE
CURRENT REPUBLICAN LEADER OF THE
ILLINOIS HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.
THE JUDGE BROUGHT ALL OF THIS TO
EVERYBODY'S ATTENTION IN COURT
TODAY, NOT THAT ANY OF IT NEEDED
TO BE.
I DON'T THINK HE SAID ANYTHING
THAT HASN'T BEEN PREVIOUSLY
REPORTED SINCE THE CASE WAS
ASSIGNED TO HIM.
BUT HE'S GIVING EACH SIDE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BASICALLY SAY
WHETHER OR NOT THEY THINK THE
CASE SHOULD REMAIN WITH HIM.
HE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT HE COULD BE
DISQUALIFIED FROM THIS CASE.
HE'S GIVING BOTH SIDES AN
OPPORTUNITY TO WAIVING THAT
DISQUALIFICATION.
AND WE SHOULD KNOW BY THE END OF
THIS WEEK WHETHER EITHER SIDE
WILL WANT TO DO SO.
THE JUDGE SAID THAT HE SET UP A
PROCESS SO THAT HE WILL NOT KNOW
WHICH PARTY OR IF EITHER PARTY
DECLINED TO WAIVE THE CONFLICT.
>> JON SEIDEL, CHICAGO SUN
TIMED, THANKS SO MUCH FOR COMING
IN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: TONIGHT, WE ARE
LAUNCHING A SERIES OF
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE RISE OF
THE ISLAMIC STATE, IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA, AND WHAT SHOULD BE DONE
ABOUT IT.
WE'RE CALLING IT "NO END IN
SIGHT."
EARLIER TODAY, STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESMAN JOHN KIRBY SAID IT
COULD TAKE AT LEAST THREE TO
FIVE YEARS TO OVERCOME THE GROUP
IN IRAQ, AND INSTEAD THAT THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION DOES HAVE A
STRATEGY FOR DEALING WITH THE
EXTREMIST ORGANIZATION.
KIRBY WAS PUSHING BACK AGAINST
CHARACTERIZATIONS OF PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S STATEMENT ON MONDAY,
WHEN HE TOLD JOURNALISTS THAT
THE U.S. WAS REASSESSING HOW TO
CONFRONT I.S.
>> WE'RE REVIEWING A RANGE OF
PLANS FOR HOW WE MIGHT DO THAT,
ESSENTIALLY ACCELERATING THE
NUMBER OF IRAQI FORCES THAT ARE
PROPERLY TRAINED AND EQUIPPED
AND HAVE A FOCUSED STRATEGY AND
GOOD LEADERSHIP.
AND WHEN A FINALIZED PLAN IS
PRESENTED TO ME BY THE PENTAGON,
THEN I WILL SHARE IT WITH THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE.
WE DON'T YET HAVE A COMPLETE
STRATEGY BECAUSE IT REQUIRES
COMMITMENTS ON THE PART OF THE
IRAQIS, AS WELL.
>> Wooduff: JOINING ME TO
DISCUSS THE FIGHT AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE IS IRAQ'S
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES
LUKMAN FAILY.
MR. AMBASSADOR, THANK YOU FOR
BEING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW IS YOUR
GOVERNMENT DOING RIGHT NOW IN
THE FIGHT AGAINST THE ISLAMIC
STATE?
DID THEY HAVE THE HUPPER HAND?
>> WE HAVE TAKEN AN INITIATIVE
ON A NUMB OFER FRONTS.
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO RETAKE
PROVINCES LIKE DIYALA WHICH WAS
PARTIALLY UNDER THE CONTROL OF
ISIS.
NOW WE'RE HAVING THE FIGHT IN
ANBAR, AND WE WILL IN THE NEAR
FUTURE FOCUS TO RETAKE ANOTHER
PROVINCE.
>> Woodruff: SO WOULD YOU SAY
ONE SIDE OR ANOTHER HAS THE UP
PER HAND?
>> IF YOU COMPARE IT LAST YEAR,
IT WAS IMPORTANT FOR US TO TAKE
THE NICHE TOIF REBUILD OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE, ARMY, PEOPLE,
POLITICS AND AS A RESULT A NEW
GOVERNMENT WAS FORMED.
THE FOCUS OF TEAMWORK APPROACH
BY ALL, MAKING SURE THAT ISIS,
DEFEATING ISIS IS THE KEY THEME
WHERE EVERYBODY HAS TO FOCUS ON
THEM.
>> WE JUST HEARD THE PRESIDENT,
PRESIDENT OBAMA YESTERDAY SAYING
THAT THERE IS NO COMPLETE
STRATEGY YET FOR DEALING WITH
ISIS IN IRAQ.
IT REQUIRES COMMITMENTS ON THE
PART OF THE IRAQI, AS WELL.
DO WE AGREE THAT COMMITMENTS ON
THE PART OF YOUR GOVERNMENT ARE
HOLDING THIS UP?
>> WE WILL APPRECIATE SUPPORT
FROM ALL OTHERS, SPECIFICALLY BY
THE UNITED STATES AS BEING A
GAME CHANGER OVER THE LAST YEAR,
HOWEVER, THE FIGHT IS FOR OUR
EXISTENCE.
THE FIGHT IS AGAINST ISIS AS AN
ENTITY, AS AN IDENTITY AND AS A
THREAT TO OUR CULTURE, OUR
HERITAGE AND CERTAINLY FOR THE
MINORITIES WHO HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
EXTERMINATE OR TRY TO ENSLAVE
AND OTHERS.
TO US THE TIME LINE IS NOW.
WE NEED TO FOCUS NOW.
WE NEED TO DEAL WITH IT.
IT HAS TO BE A SENSE OF URGENCY.
WE APPRECIATE THAT THERE HAS TO
BE INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.
WE WILL WELCOME THAT.
WHAT WE'RE SAYING IS WE WILL NOT
WAIT FOR ANYBODY TO HAVE THIS
FIGHT.
WE WILL DO THIS FIGHT.
WE WANT TO HAVE HELP FROM
OTHERS, BUT WE CAN'T ACCOMMODATE
ANY LONG-TERM PLAN.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'RE NOT
SAYING YOUR GOVERNMENT CAN DO IT
ALONE?
>> NOR CAN ANYONE DO IT ALONE.
IT'S IN THE A IRAQI FIGHT ALONE,
JUDY.
THIS IS A REGIONAL FIGHT WITH A
GLOBAL IMPLICATION.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
RESPONSIBILITY IN TERMS OF U.S.
MILITARY SUPPORT AND U.S. BOOTS
ON THE GROUND.
>> I DON'T WANT TO CALL IT
RESPONSIBILITY.
ALL I WILL SAY IS THE WHOLE
WORLD HAS A THREAT.
THE COALITION WHICH THE UNITED
STATES HAS LED WE APPRECIATE, WE
THANK.
WE THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
WE'RE ALL ON THE SAME PAGE, BUT
WE HAVE... LET'S SAY IT THIS
WAY, THE INTERNATIONAL PLAN FOR
SYRIA IS STILL NOT.
THERE IN IRAQ THEY HAVE A
PARTNER.
WE HAVE TO WORK WITH EACH OTHER.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THE
COMMENT BY U.S. DEFENSE
SECRETARY ASH CARTER THE OTHER
DAY THAT IRAQI TROOPS LACKED THE
WILL TO FIGHT IN RAMADI.
>> ONLY YESTERDAY A SIGNIFICANT
PORTION OF THE AREA WAS RETAKEN.
THIS HAS BEEN A FORMIDABLE
FIGHT.
EVERY DAY WE PAY DEARLY IN OUR
YOUNG ONES' LIVES AND SWEAT AND
RESOURCES, LIMITED RESOURCES OF
THE STATE.
I THINK IT'S UNFAIR TO SAY THAT
IT'S AN ISSUE OF THE WORLD.
WE HAVE THAT, BUT WE NEED TO GET
BETTER COORDINATION.
LAST YEAR WAS A SETBACK FOR US.
WE HAD TO RESTRUCTURE OUR
MILITARY AND OUR POLITICS AND SO
ON.
WE'RE A NEW DEMOCRACY, WE'RE A
NAY SENT DEMOCRACY.
SO I THINK PEOPLE HAVE THE LOOK
AT IT IN PROPORTION, HOWEVER,
LET'S PUT HIT THE WAY: WHOEVER
TALKS ABOUT NOT HAVING THE WILL,
UNITED STATES WAS IN IRAQ SINCE
2003, SO WHO IS RESPONSIBLE?
I THINK WE ARE ALL RESPONSIBLE
FOR THIS PROBLEM.
WE HAVE TO TAKE OWNERSHIP OF IT,
BUT MOVE AWAY FROM THE POLICEMEN
AND FOCUS MOVING FORWARD.
>> YOU'RE SAYING THE U.S. SHARES
PART OF THE BLAME.
>> EVERYBODY I THINK IN THAT
SENSE HAS A RESPONSIBILITY FOR
IT.
POLITICS IN THE REGION NOW
UNFORTUNATELY AFTER THE ARAB
SPRING HAVE BECOME MORE
SELF-CENTERED POLITICS.
WE NEED TO WORK WITH EACH OTHER.
POLARIZATION, THIS IS NOT AN
IRAQI PROBLEM.
LET ME GIVE YOU A SIMPLE
EXAMPLE.
IF YOU HAVE A THREAT IN PARIS,
IS THIS A SHARED PARIS?
, NO, IT'S A GLOBAL PHENOMENON.
ISIL IS AN EVIL MANIFESTATION.
WE NEED TO ERADICATE IT.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT THE ROLE OF IRAN.
MANY IN THE U.S. ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT THE HEAVIER ROLE OF IRAN
IN YOUR COUNTRY.
THE RELIANCE ON IRAN
EXACERBATES, MAKES WORSE THE
SECTARIAN DIVISIONS IN YOUR
COUNTRY.
IS YOUR GOVERNMENT RELYING TOO
MUCH ON IRAN IN THE FIGHT
AGAINST ISIS?
>> WE HAVE A THREAT HERE.
A CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER.
FOR THAT MEANS WE NEED HELP FROM
OTHERS.
IRAN HAS A NATIONAL SECURITY
ISSUE OF ITS OWN BECAUSE OF THE
BORDER, BECAUSE OF THE RELIGIOUS
GROUNDS OF IRAQ, WHICH IS
CONCERNED IMPORTANT HERITAGE FOR
THE SHIA COMMUNITY AND SO ON, SO
THEY HAVE A STAKE.
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO PROVIDE
UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORT.
IF YOU HAVE A PROBLEM, IF YOU
HAVE A FIRE IN YOUR HOUSE, WOULD
YOU WANT YOUR NEIGHBOR TO GIVE
YOU A HAND?
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE.
AND WHATEVER POLITICS WE NEED TO
GET IN ORDER, WE NEED TO DO
THAT.
WE CERTAINLY... THE SOVEREIGNTY
OF THE COUNTRY IS KEY ISSUE FOR
US, BUT THE THREAT IS COMMON,
AND AMONG OTHER NEIGHBORS, AS
WELL.
DOES IRAN HAVE A SENSE OF
URGENCY OTHERS DON'T HAVE?
MAYBE.
THAT'S AN ISSUE WHERE OTHER
COUNTRIES HAVE TO SAY, HOW
URGENT DO THEY SUPPORT IRAQ?
>>
>> Woodruff: AMBASSADOR LUKMAN
FAILY, THE AMBASSADOR OF IRAQ TO
THE UNITED STATES, THANK YOU FOR
TALKING US TO.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME HERE.
>> Wooduff: THE UNITED NATIONS
REFUGEE AGENCY REPORTED TODAY
THAT MORE THAN 100,000 MIGRANTS
HAVE ARRIVED IN EUROPE THIS YEAR
AFTER MAKING THE DEADLY VOYAGE
ACROSS THE MEDITERRANEAN.
THEY ARE IN MANY WAYS THE LUCKY
ONES AS MORE THAN 1700 HAVE
PERISHED DURING THE JOURNEY THIS
YEAR.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A LOOK AT SOME
OF THE OTHERS IN THE MIGRANT
CRISIS, THOSE WHO ARE ALIVE BUT
STOPPED AND IMPRISONED AS THEY
TRY TO FLEE NORTH AFRICA LINDSEY
HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS HAS OUR REPORT.
FREEDOM, EUROPE, THE LAND THEY
FAILED TO REACH, AFRICA AND THE
FAMILIES THEY LEFT BEHIND.
>> I WANT THE CALL MY PARENTS.
>> Reporter: NOW THEIR WORLD
IS INSIDE THE MISURATA DETENTION
CENTER.
560 MEN, MOST OF THEM AFRICANS,
SOME INTERCEPTED CROSSING THE
MEDITERRANEAN, OTHERS ARRESTED
FOR WORKING ILLEGALLY IN LIBYA.
>> I CAN'T FIND FREEDOM IN
AFRICA.
THE ONLY CHANCE TO HAVE IT WAS
TO CROSS THE SAHARA AND REACH
EUROPE.
>> Reporter: DO YOU REGRET
GETTING ON THAT BOAT?
>> FROM THE CIRCUMSTANCES AT THE
MOMENT, THAT WAS THE BEST
DECISION TO TAKE.
I TRIED.
I COULDN'T LIVE WITH MYSELF AS A
MAN.
I TRIED.
I FEEL NO MATTER HOW HARD IT IS,
I BELIEVE EUROPE IS BETTER THAN
AFRICA.
WHEN EUROPE IS HARD, AFRICA
WOULD BE HELL.
IT WOULD BE FIRE.
>> Reporter: THE ERITREANS ARE
THE LARGEST GROUP.
IF THEY STAYED AT HOME, THEY
WOULD HAVE BEEN FORCED INTO
INDEFINITE MILITARY SERVICE.
>> I HAVE A BROTHER.
HE'S BEEN THERE FOR 20 YEARS.
HE'S 94.
I DON'T WANT TO BE A SOLDIER FOR
20 YEARS.
SO I NEED A BETTER LIFE.
>> Reporter: HIS FRIENDS TRIED
TO GET OUT VIA EGYPT'S SINAI TO
ISRAEL.
HE WAS CHAINED AND TORTURED BY
PEOPLE SMUGGLERS.
THEY BURNED NOT ONLY HIS HANDS
BUT ALSO HIS MIND.
>> YOU HAVE A SMALL BAG THERE.
>> Reporter: HE SHOWED ME THE
THINGS HE CARRIED ON HIS ODYSSEY
THROUGH FIVE AFRICAN COUNTRIES.
"YOU CAN TOUCH MY BIBLE," HE
SAID, "BUT THEN LET THE GODS SEE
IT."
FOR MANY THE NIGHTMARE WAS AT
SEA.
THE LIBYAN COAST GUARD HAS
RELEASED VIDEO OF BOATS THEY
RECENTLY INTERCEPTED ON THE WAY
TO SICILY.
SEVERAL IN THE DETENTION CENTER
WILL NEVER FORGET MAY 3rd, THE
NIGHT THEIR DREAMS DIED.
>> BEFORE THEY INRCETEPT US, WE
ALL HAD THE DREAM.
YOU KNOW, WE THOUGHT IT WOULD BE
BETTER.
IT WAS SO UNFORTUNATE WHEN WE
SEE THE LIBYAN PEOPLE.
AND WE ALL KNOW THAT WE ARE
GOING BACK TO HELL.
NOBODY PRAYED FOR THAT.
>> Reporter: NOBODY PRAYED TO
END UP AT THE MISURATA MORGUE
EITHER.
UNCLAIMED, UNNAMED BODIES, WHO
WASHED UP ON THE LIBYAN SHORE
WHEN THEIR BOATS CAPSIZED,
ANONYMOUS MEN, WOMEN AND
CHILDREN WHO TOOK THE RISK.
FOR WHAT?
THIS MAN TOLD ME HE HAS DIPLOMAS
IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND
MARKETING.
SURELY HE COULD FIND A JOB IN
GAMBIA.
YOU COULD STAY AND BUILD YOUR
OWN COUNTRY, NOT TO COME TO
EUROPE.
>> YEAH, YEAH, THAT'S TRUE.
WE WANT TO GO TO EUROPE TO HAVE
SOMETHING.
SO IF YOU ARE STRONG
FINANCIALLY, YOU CAN COME BACK
THE AFRICA AND INVEST SOMETHING
IN AFRICA.
>> Reporter: PLAYING CARDS CUT
FROM JUICE CARTONS THAT WILES
AWAY THE HOURS AS THEY TRY TO
ESCAPE, THEY SAY, THE GUARDS
BEAT THEM.
THERE'S PLENTY OF TIME TO THINK
ABOUT THEIR LIVES.
AS THE FLOW OF MIGRANTS
INCREASES, EUROPE'S RESERVES OF
SYMPATHY HAS DWINDLED.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN MAY GET A
LITTLE, BUT AFRICAN MEN GET
NONE.
37 NEW GRAVES HAVE BEEN DUG IN
THE DUNES.
MIGRANTS WHO PERISHED AT SEA.
THE MISURATA CEMETERY LOOKS OVER
THE MEDITERRANEAN TOWARD EUROPE,
BUT SOME SCORN DEATH AND DREAM
OF TRAVELING EVEN FURTHER.
>> MAYBE TO AMERICA.
UNTIL I GET WHAT I NEED.
>> Reporter: WHICH IS?
>> FREEDOM.
>> Reporter: WOULD YOU TRY
AGAIN?
>> YOU KNOW, IF I STILL FIND
WHAT CHASED ME OUT OF MY HOUSE,
I'LL TRY AGAIN.
>> Reporter: A DIET OF PASTA
AND CHICKEN, THERE'S NEVER QUITE
ENOUGH TO EAT.
CAUGHT BETWEEN DREAMS AND
DESPAIR, THEY THINK OF THEIR
LIVES STRETCHING AHEAD, ESCAPE,
DEPORTATION, INDEFINITE
IMPRISONMENT.
100 MEN SHARE EACH BATHROOM.
THEY HAVE THE SAME FEARS AND
AMBITIONS AS YOUNG MEN ANYWHERE.
THEY TELL THEMSELVES NO
CONDITION IS PERMANENT, BUT AN
ACCIDENT OF GEOGRAPHY RULES
THEIR FATE.
>> Wooduff: CALIFORNIA'S DROUGHT
HAS FORCED WATER USE CUTBUCKS IN
URBAN AND AGRICULTURAL AREAS.
ACCORDING TO STATE SCIENTISTS
THE SITUATION HAS BEEN
EXACERBATED BY MEDICAL MARIJUANA
GROWERS.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
SPENCER MICHELS REPORTS ON HOW
SOME POT GROWERS ARE USING WATER
THAT ISN'T THEIRS.
>> Reporter: THERE SHOULDN'T BE
ANY PROBLEMS WITH THREATS.
IF WE HAVE A HOSTAGE SITUATION,
YELL OUT "DON'T SHOOT ME" AND
FALL OR ROLL IN THE GROUND.
>> Reporter: IT'S 7:00 A.M. IN
FORTUNA, ON CALIFORNIA'S NORTH
COAST, AND TEAMS OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS ARE
PREPARING FOR WHAT THEY CALL AN
"INSPECTION" OF CANNABIS FARMS
DEEP IN THE WOODED HILLS OF
MBOHULDT COUNTY.
>> IT'S A CRAPPY ROAD.
>> DOES THAT ROAD GO ALL THE WAY
THROUGH?
>> NO IT DID NOT.
>> Reporter: DESPITE THE WAY IT
LOOKS, THESE ARE NOT POLICE OR
SHERIFF'S DEPUTIES, OR FEDERAL
AGENTS.
THEY ARE EMPLOYEES OF THE STATE
WATER BOARD AND THE CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF FISH AND WILDLIFE,
AND THEIR AIM IS TO PROTECT THE
ENVIRONMENT.
A SPECIAL PROGRAM PROVIDES FUNDS
FOR THESE GAME WARDENS,
BIOLOGISTS AND ENGINEERS TO FIND
AND INSPECT MARIJUANA PLANTINGS
ON PRIVATELY-OWNED LANDS, NOT
WITH AN EYE TO ERADICATING THEM,
BUT TO SEE IF THE GROWERS ARE
STEALING WATER AND RUINING
STREAMS WITH PESTICIDE RUNOFF.
>> WE'RE PRETTY FOCUSED ON THIS
KEY WATERSHED.
THIS ONE WE'RE GOING TO IS VERY
IMPORTANT FOR COHO SALMON.
>> Reporter:DULT A MARIJUANA
PLANTS USE FIVE TO TEN GALLONS
OF WATER A DAY.
WHAT THE SCIENTISTS HAVE FOUND,
AND RECENTLY PUBLISHED IN THE
SCIENTIFIC JOURNAL PLUS ONE, IS
THAT THOUSANDS OF MARIJUANA
FARMS LIKE THIS ONE ARE
DEPLETING STREAMS AT THE HEIGHT
OF THE DROUGHT.
SCOTT BAUER IS A SENIOR
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENTIST WITH
FISH AND WILDLIFE.
FOR THE WATERSHEDS THAT WE
STUDIED, THREE OF FOUR
WATERSHEDS, WE ESTIMATE
MARIJUANA CULTIVATION CAN
CONSUME ALL OF THE STREAM FLOW.
IT'S AGGRAVATING THE LOW FLOW
CONDITIONS OF THE STREAM.
YOU ALREADY HAVE A STREAM
THAT'S SUFFERING THROUGH LACK OF
RAINFALL OR SNOWMELT.
>> Reporter: THIS FARM IS OWNED
BY AN ABSENTEE LANDLORD AND
MANNED BY SEVERAL WORKERS, ONE
OF WHOM TOOK OFF WHEN WE
ARRIVED.
>> THIS LITTLE ONE HERE IS 305
GALLONS.
>> Reporter: OFFICERS FOUND A
VAST AND COMPLICATED ARRAY OF
PIPES AND PUMPS AND TANKS AND
FERTILIZERS, DRAWING WATER,
WITHOUT PERMITS, FROM SMALL
CREEKS THAT RUN THROUGH THE
PROPERTY.
THEY HAVE A CISTERN DOWN IN THE
CREEK, THAT GOES TO A 500 GALLON
TANK, AND THAT GOES TO 20,000
GALLON BLADDER, AND THEY PUMP
IT UP THE HILL.
>> Reporter: BAUER AND OTHERS
COUNT THE CANNABIS PLANTS--
>> IT'S PRETTY AVERAGE.
>> Reporter: --MEASURE T SIZHEE
OF THE FIELDS, AND FIGURE OUT
THE WATER SUPPLY.
>> IT REQUIRES PERMITS YOU KNOW,
AND THAT'S OUR JOB IS TO ISSUE
THOSE PERMITS.
AND CONDITION THEM SO THAT YES,
YOU CAN USE WATER, BUT IT NEEDS
TO BE WITHIN REASON.
>> Reporter: ESTIMATES ARE THAT
THERE ARE 53,000 CANNABIS
GROWERS IN CALIFORNIA.
MANY, THOUGH NOT ALL, CLAIM TO
BE GROWING MEDICAL MARIJUANA,
WHICH, WITH SOME RESTRICTIONS,
CAN BE LEGAL UNDER STATE BUT NOT
FEDERAL LAW.
A KEY TOOL FOR THOSE LOOKING FOR
MARIJUANA GROWING IN THESE
HILLS, FOR WHATEVER REASON, IS
THE AIRPLANE.
CALIFORNIA FISH AND WILDLIFE HAS
USING SATELLITE PICTURES
R SFOOME TIME.
>> YOU CAN SEE SITES PLAIN AS
DAY ON GOOGLE.
THEN WE ALSO DO AERIAL FLIGHTS
TO CONFIRM IT, THAT YES, THERE
IS CULTIVATION TAKING PLACE.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU SEE
FROM THE AIR OR FROM GOOGLE
EARTH?
>> TYPICALLY GREENHOUSES,
OUTDOOR PLANTS IT'S PRETTY
OBVIOUS WHAT THE CULTIVATION
SITES ARE.
>> Reporter: ALTHOUGH MOST
GROWERS ARE NOT VIOLENT, MANY
ARE DEFYING THE LAW.
THE SHERIFF OF NEARBY MENDOCINO
COUNTY, WHERE THE DROUGHT HAS
LOWERED LAKES LIKE THIS, SAYS
THE PROBLEM IS WORSE ON LARGE
PRIVATE HOLDINGS.
>> THERE'S THOUSANDS OF ACRES IN
OUR COUNTY OF LAND THAT'S OWNED
BY TIMBER COMPANIES AND OTHER
LARGE INVESTORS, THAT IS
UNPATROLLED LAND.
AND MARIJUANA GROWERS TRESPASS
ONTO THIS LAND AND THAT'S WHERE
THEY DIVERT WATER FROM STREAMS
INTO THE MARIJUANA GROVES.
NOT MANY JURIES IN THIS COUNTY
WILL CONVICT SOMEONE OF GROWING
MARIJUANA.
BUT WE GO AFTER PEOPLE WHO ARE
ILLEGALLY GROWING MARIJUANA AND
STEALING WATER.
OUR LOCAL CITIZENS WHO ARE THE
JURORS UNDERSTAND THIS.
>> Reporter: WINE GRAPE FARMERS
LIKE GEORGE LEE, ATTENDING A
WINEGROWERS MEETING, COMPLAIN
THAT MARIJUANA PRODUCERS
SOMETIMES ACTUALLY STEAL THEIR
WATER.
>> THEY TOOK MY WATER.
MAKES ME ANGRY.
I THERE ARE NEIGHBORS I HAVE
THAT DON'T HAVE GREAT ACCESS TO
WATER.
THEY STORE WATER IN THEIR PONDS
DURING THE WINTER.
SOME OF THOSE PEOPLE DO HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH PEOPLE COMING IN
AND SIPHONING THEIR WATER.
>> Reporter: LEE AND OTHERS ARE
CONCERNED THAT WATER LEVELS IN
STREAMS LIKE THE EEL RIVER ARE
LOW THROUGHOUT THE STATE, AND
WILL GET WORSE DURING WHAT IS
EXPECTED TO BE A DRY SUMMER.
AND THAT IS A HUGE CONCERN FOR
ENVIRONMENTALISTS LIKE SCOTT
GREACEN, THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF FRIENDS OF THE EEL RIVER.
>> IN THE EEL RIVER WATERSHED WE
HAVE THREE RUNS OF SALMON AND
STEELHEAD TROUT THAT ARE REALLY
IN VERY SERIOUS TROUBLE; THEY'RE
LISTED AS THREATENED ON THE
FEDERAL ENDANGERED SPECIES LIST.
IF THERE ISN'T WATER IN THE
CREEK HERE, THEN WE LOSE THE
YOUNG SALMON AND THE YOUNG
STEELHEAD TROUT THAT HAVE TO
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION,
GREACEN SAYS, GROWERS OFTEN USE
PESTICIDES AND RAT POISONS,
SUBSTANCES THAT GET INTO THE
WATER SUPPLY OR ARE INGEEDST
DIRECTLY BY ANIMALS.
>> WHEN A BIRD OF PREY, OR A
SNAKE, KILL THAT RAT AND TAKE IT
BACK TO THEIR ST, NETHEY'RE NOT
ONLY INGESTING THAT POISON,
THEY'RE PASSING IT ON TO THEIR
BABIES.
IT'S SOMETHING NOBODY EVER
CONSIDERED WAS GOING TO BE AN
EFFECT OF POT GROWING IN THE
NATIONAL FORESTS AND THE
WILDERNESS AREAS.
>> Reporter: BUT WHETHER
MARIJUANA GROWERS ARE
RESPONSIBLE FOR AGGRAVATING THE
DROUGHT THROUGH ILLEGAL WATER
USE IS DISPUTED BY SOME GROWERS
LIKE PATRICK MURPHY, WHO LEADS
CALIFORNIA CANNABIS VOICE.
>> RIGHT NOW, IT'S PURE
SPECULATION.
WITH THE INTRODUCTION OF BETTER
IRRIGATION STYLES AND ALSO
DIFFERENT PLANT TYPES, WE'LL BE
ABLE TO KNOW WHAT THE ACTUAL
WATER USAGE IS.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT IN THE
MIDDLE OF A DROUGHT IS A CORRECT
TIME TO STUDY THE CUMULATIVE
IMPACTS OF THE CANNABIS
INDUSTRY.
>> Reporter: WHAT MURPHY, AND
MANY OTHERS WANT TO SEE IS
CANNABIS LEGALIZED SO THAT IT
AND ITS WATER SUPPLY CAN BE
REGULATED.
THEY POINT TO AN OPERATION LIKE
HAPPYDAYS FARMS BELONGING TO
CASEY O'NEILL AND HIS FAMILY,
AS A MODEL.
O'NEILL SELLS HIS ORGANIC
VEGETABLES AT FARMERS MARKETS,
AND HIS VERY HEALTHY MARIJUANA
CROP TO WHAT HE CALLS
"PATIENTS."
>> Reporter: WE CONSUME IT FOR
OURSELVES, AND SO WE PUT THE
LOVE, AND THE ENERGY AND THE
TIME AND THE EFFORT INTO IT, TO
PRODUCE A CONNOISSEUR PRODUCT.
>> Reporter: O'NEILL GETS HIS
WATER FROM RAIN RUNOFF, WHICH HE
STORES IN PONDS HE HAS
CONSTRUCTED ON THE PROPERTY AND
IN TANKS.
>> SO IF WE STORE THE WINTER
RAINWATER THEN WE'RE ABLE TO USE
IT AS FARMERS WITHOUT TAKING
WATER AWAY FROM THE FISH.
I FUNDAMENTALLY BELIEVE THAT ALL
CANNABIS GROWN IN CALIFORNIA
COULD BE GROWN ON STORED
RAINWATER WITH A CONCERTED
GOVERNMENT EFFORT TO SUPPORT
TANK PROGRAMS AND CATCHMENT
PONDS.
>> Reporter: DESPITE HIS GOOD
PRACTICES, O'NEILL, WHO ONCE WAS
JAILED FOR POSSESSION AND
CULTIVATION, FEARS THAT WITHOUT
REGULATION, HE REMAINS
VULNERABLE.
>> BECAUSE THE SYSTEM HASN'T
PROVIDED REGULATION, THERE'S NO
WAY FOR ENFORCEMENT TO SAY WHO'S
GOOD FARMERS, AND WHO'S BAD, AND
SO AS FARMERS WE LIVE UNDER THIS
CONSTANT SHADOW OF FEAR.
YOU NEVER KNOW.
THE DOGS BARK AND YOU THINK IT'S
THE POLICE.
>> PEOPLE ARE NO LONGER TALKING
ABOUT WHETHER THIS IS LEGAL
BEHAVIOR OR NOT.
THEY KNOW THAT THIS INDUSTRY IS
THE FASTEST GROWING INDUSTRY IN
THE UNITED STATES.
WE'RE CRAVING REGULATIONS; WE'RE
ALSO CRAVING THE INCENTIVES THAT
COME WITH THOSE REGULATIONS.
SO IF YOU'RE A COMPLIANT FARMER
AND YOU'RE DOING A GOOD JOB AS
AN ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARD, THEN
YOU ARE REWARDED WITH AN ABOVE
GROUND MARKETPLACE, MAYBE CROP
INSURANCE AND THAT STABILITY
THAT THIS REGION HASN'T SEEN FOR
A LONG TIME.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, WARDENS
AND SCIENTISTS CONTINUE LOOK FOR
EVIDENCE OF WATER VIOLATIONS, AT
WHAT THEY ADMIT IS A SLOW PACE.
IN TEN MONTHS, THEY'VE INSPECTED
JUST 70 GROWS, AND HAVE TOLD 20
TO 30 LANDOWNERS THEY ARE IN
VIOLATION OF STATE ENVIRONMENTAL
LAWS.
THEY CALL THAT MAKING A SMALL
DENT IN A BIG PROBLEM.
FOR THE PBS NEWSHOUR, I'M
SPENCER MICHELS IN HUMBOLDT
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
>> Wooduff: ONLINE, SPENCER HAS
MORE FROM MARIJUANA GROWERS WHO
WANT BETTER REGULATION OF WATER.
READ HIS BLOG ON OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
>> Wooduff: HIGH SCHOOL SENIORS
ARE GRADUATING ACROSS THE
COUNTRY THIS MONTH.
FEDERAL OFFICIALS LAUD THE FACT
THAT GRADUATION RATES HAVE
CLIMBED STEADILY THROUGH THE
LAST DECADE.
BUT NEW REPORTING CALLS INTO
QUESTION WHETHER THOSE NUMBERS
ARE RISING FOR ALL THE RIGHT
REASONS.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM BRINGS US THE
DETAILS.
>> Brangham: HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION RATES ARE AT AN ALL-
TIME HIGH FEDERAL DATA SHOW
81% OF STUDENTS FINISH, AND
FINISH ON TIME.
BUT A NEW INVESTIGATION BY
N.P.R. FINDS REASONS TO QUESTION
THAT NUMBER.
THEIR REPORTING FOUND THAT THE
VALUE OF A HIGH SCHOOL DIPLOMA
CAN VARY WIDELY BETWEEN, AND
EVEN WITHIN, STATES.
IN JUST NINE STATES AND THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, STUDENTS
MUST COMPLETE REQUIRED CLASSES
TO BE CONSIDERED "COLLEGE-READY"
AND TO EARN A DIPLOMA.
TWENTY-THREE STATES ALLOW
STUDENTS TO OPT IN, OR OUT, OF A
MORE RIGOROUS PATH TO
GRADUATION.
THAT LEAVES 18 STATES WITH
REQUIREMENTS BELOW WHAT EXPERTS
SAY STUDENTS NEED FOR THEIR NEXT
STEP IN LIFE.
NPR'S ANYA KAMENETZ HAS BEEN
WORKING ON THE SERIES AND JOINS
ME NOW.
ANYA, LET'S TALK INITIALLY ABOUT
THIS 81% GRADUATION RATE NUMBER.
YOU SAY IN YOUR REPORTING WE
SHOULD TAKE THAT NUMBER WITH A
BIG GRAIN OF SALT.
WHY?
>> WELL, THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT
RESEARCHERS ARE SAYINTOO.
THE REASON IS OTHER INDICATORS
SUCH AS THE NATION'S REPORT
CARD, REMEDIATION RATE AT
COLLEGES AND EVEN SAT AND ACT
SCORES, THOSE ARE ALL FAT.
SO THE FACT WE'VE SEEN A
10-POINT GAIN IN THE HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATION RATE SHOULD BE GIVING
US PAUSE.
>> Brangham: YOU SAID ONE
THING YOU REPORTED ON IS
DISTRICTS ARE DOING WHAT'S
CALLING MOVING KIDS OFF THE
BOOKS.
WHAT IS THAT AND WHY ARE THEY
DOING IT?
>> RIGHT.
SO THE GRADUATION RATE, IF YOU
THINK ABOUT IT, THE NUMERATOR OF
THAT NUMBER IS SIMPLY THE NUMBER
OF KIDS THAT GET A DIPLOMA IN A
GIVEN YEAR.
BUT THE DENOMINATOR, YOU'RE
TRACKING KIDS FROM NINTH GRADE
THROUGH 12th GRADE AND
YOU'RE TRACKING THOSE WHO THE
DROP OUT ALONG THE WAY.
THERE ARE MANY WAYS THAT A
DISTRICT, A SCHOOL OR EVEN A
STATE CAN PLAY A FEW GAMES WITH
THAT NUMBER.
SOME EXAMPLES WE FOUND, YOU
KNOW, IN TEXAS THERE ARE MANY,
MANY DIFFERENT LEVER CODES THAT
A SCHOOL CAN USE TO SAY A KID,
FOR EXAMPLE, IS GETTING HOME
SCHOOLED OR THAT THEY LEFT THE
COUNTRY, GO BACK TO MEXICO, AND
MANY OF THESE CODES DO NOT
REQUIRE A LOT OF DOCUMENTATION.
SO WE FIND THAT TEXAS, IN FACT,
IS BACKING OUT THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS OF STUDENTS OUT OF THE
DENOMINATOR AND NOT REALLY
ACCOUNTING FOR WHERE THEY GO.
>> Brangham: WHY WOULD SCHOOL
DISTRICTS WANTS TO DO THIS?
WHY ARE THEY TRYING TO TWEAK THE
NUMBERS HERE?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A
COUPLE OF DIFFERENT REASONS FOR
THAT.
NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND, OF COURSE,
PUT FEDERAL ACCOUNTABILITY
MEASURES BEHIND THE GRADUATION
RATES.
STATES HAVE TO SET TARGETS AND
THEY'RE LIABLE TO LOSE SOME
FUNDING IF THEY DON'T.
AT THE SAME TIME, YOU KNOW, WE
SIMPLY HAVE BETTER DATA ABILITY
SOME STATES GOT TOGETHER IN 2005
AND AGREED ON A COMMON MEASURE
OF THE GRADUATION RATE.
SO THE ABILITY TO TRACK STUDENTS
HAS GOTTEN MUCH MORE ADVANCED
BECAUSE OF DATABASE
TECHNOLOGIES.
SO FOR ALL OF THESE REASONS,
TECHNICAL REASONS AS WELL AS
POLICY REASONS, THERE'S SO MUCH
MORE PRESSURE TO DELIVER THOSE
NUMBERS.
UNFORTUNATELY, YOU KNOW, THE
HARD WORK OF RAISING GRADUATION
RATES REALLY TAKES TIME.
SO THAT'S WHY YOU SEE STATES
ATTEMPTING TO GO OVER SOME OF
THESE QUICK FIXES.
>> YOU'RE REPORTING ALSO DETAILS
SOME VERY INNOVATIVE AND
LONG-TERM STRATEGIES THAT
DIFFERENT SCHOOL DISTRICTS HAVE
USED.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN SOME OF THOSE?
TELL ME ABOUT THEM.
>> RIGHT.
SO I WANT THE HIGHLIGHT THAT WE
WORKED IN COLLABORATION WITH 14
MEMBER STATIONS ACROSS THE
COUNTRY AND HAD THEM BRING US
WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN THEIR
CITIES AND STATES.
SOME STRATEGIES WE LOOKED AT
INVOLVED INTERVENING EARLY ON.
WE'RE SEEING ACROSS THE COUNTRY
THAT STATES ARE EXPANDING ACCESS
TO UNIVERSAL PRE-K BECAUSE OF
THE RESEARCH THAT SHOWS THAT CAN
IMPACT HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION
DOWN THE LINE.
AND THEN YOU HAVE STATE LIKE
GEORGIA WHICH CREATED A
STATEWIDE GRADUATION COACH
SYSTEM.
THEY'RE NO LONGER FUNDING THAT
STATEWIDE, BUT SOME CITIES ARE
STILL KEEPING IT UP.
SOME STATES AND CITIES ARE
IDENTIFYING, YOU KNOW, PEOPLE IN
THIRD OR FOURTH GRADE, IN D.C.
WHICH IS HAS BEEN WORKING HARD
TO RAISE GRADUATION RATES.
THEY HAVE THE WORST GRADUATION
RATE IN THE COUNTRY WHEN YOU
LOOK AT STATES.
ONE OF THE SCHOOLS THAT ONE OF
OUR REPORTERS VISITED, ABOUT ONE
ONE-THIRD OF THE STUDENTS ARE
HOMELESS, SO THEY'RE WORKING ON
OFFERING WRAP-AROUND SERVICES TO
HELP THOSE KIDS ESCAPE
STATISTICS.
>> YOU MENTIONED IN YOUR
REPORTING THAT SOME DISTRICTS
ARE MAKING IT EASIER FOR KIDS TO
GET A DIPLOMA.
SO ON THE FACE OF THAT, THAT
SOUNDS LIKE A GOOD THING.
WE WANT KIDS TO GET A DIPLOMA,
BUT YOUR REPORTING SEEMS TO
INDICATE THAT KIDS MIGHT BE
GETTING SHORTCHANGED IN THAT.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
WE TALK ABOUT THE GOOD, THE BAD
AND THE AMBIGUOUS.
OBVIOUSLY WHEN YOU HAVE STATES
OFFERING SECOND CHANCES TO KIDS,
OFFERING THE ABILITY LIKE IN
NORTH CAROLINA TO GET A BASIC
SKILLS DIPLOMA OR IN CAMDEN, NEW
JERSEY, HALF OF THE KIDS ARE
GRADUATING ON AN APPEALS PROCESS
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T PASS THE
REQUIRED EXAMS, WE WANT TO OFFER
KIDS SECOND CHANCES.
AMERICA IS THE LAND OF SECOND
ACTS, BUT THE CONCERN FROM
RESEARCHERS SAYS IF YOU DON'T
REALLY COMPLETE REQUIRED COURSES
AND DO SO AT A RELATIVE LEVEL OF
ACHIEVEMENT, THEN YOU HAVEN'T
MASTERED THE SKILLS YOU NEED TO
GO ON.
SO THAT'S WHY WE'RE SEEING
PERHAPS SO MANY STUDENTS WHO
COME INTO COMMUNITY COLLEGE AND
THEY NEED THE TAKE HIGH SCHOOL
COURSES OVER AGAIN.
OF COURSE, THEY'RE PAYING
COLLEGE TUITION FOR THAT
PRIVILEGE.
>> ANYA KAMENETZ FROM NATIONAL
PUBLIC RADIO, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Wooduff: NEXT: MARY NORRIS
HAS SPENT MORE THAN THREE
DECADES AT THE "NEW YORKER,"
COPY-EDITING THE WORK OF SOME OF
THE WORLD'S MOST VAUNTED
WRITERS.
FOR OUR NEWSHOUR BOOKSHELF,
JEFFREY BROWN SAT DOWN WITH
NORRIS, WHOSE JOB TITLE IS
"OKAY-ER" AND WHOSE MISSION IS
CLARITY AND PURPOSE.
>> Brown: CONSIDER THE COMMA,
WHEN TO USE IT, WHEN TO AVOID
IT.
IS IT "I" AT THE DOOR OR "ME"?
"WHO" ARE YOU, ANYWAY AND FROM
"WHOM" DID YOU LEARN TO WRITE
PROPER ENGLISH?
DID YOU LEARN?
DO YOU CARE?
WELL, MARY NORRIS CARES A LOT,
AS A COPY EDITOR FOR THE "NEW
YORKER" MAGAZINE, FAMOUS FOR ITS
HIGH, OR PERHAPS, HIGHLY
IDIOSYNCRATIC, STANDARDS.
NORRIS RECOUNTS A LIFE OF
GRAMMATICAL GRIEF AND GLORY IN
HER BOOK, "BETWEEN YOU & ME:
CONFESSIONS OF A COMMA QUEEN."
WE SPOKE RECENTLY AT THE
SHIRLINGTON LIBRARY IN NORTHERN
VIRGINIA.
>> Brown: IS THIS THAT A CROWN
THAT YOU WEAR WITH PRIDE?
>> WELL YES I DO.
THIS IS A CROWN THAT A FRIEND
MADE FOR ME ON PUBLICATION ON
THE BOOK.
COMMA QUEEN IS THE TITLE THEY
CAME UP WITH FOR ME FOR THE
BOOK, IT'S NOT SOMETHING WE TOSS
AROUND AT THE OFFICE, IT'S
ALUMINUM AND THESE COMMAS ARE
INDIVIDUALLY CUT.
THEY'RE FROM UNIQUE HISTORICAL
FONTS.
THERE'S FUTURA AND BODONI AND
THE GREAT BEMBO.
>> Brown: NOW YOU'VE WRITTEN A
BOOK THAT IS PART MEMOIR, PART I
GUESS A GRAMMAR KIND OF GUIDE.
WHAT WERE YOU AFTER, WHAT WERE
YOU DOING?
>> I WAS JUST TRYING TO HELP
PEOPLE WHO ARE INSECURE.
>> Brown: WHICH IS MOST OF US,
PROBABLY.
>> IT TURNS OUT THAT A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE INSECURE.
THEY LEARNED ABOUT COMMAS, THEY
LEARNED ABOUT GRAMMAR, SOME OF
THEM LEARNED HOW TO DIAGRAM
SENTENCES COMING UP.
AND THEY, I DON'T KNOW IF THESE
THINGS ARE TAUGHT AT ALL
ANYMORE, THERE'S SOMETHING
CALLED LANGUAGE ARTS IN SCHOOLS,
I THINK, BUT THEY'RE STILL
IMPORTANT, AND THEY CERTAINLY
SHOULD STILL BE TAUGHT.
>> Brown: WHY ARE THEY
IMPORTANT?
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO KNOW
ABOUT WHEN TO USE A COMMA OR
WHEN A DANGLING PARTICIPLE IS
WRONG?
>> WELL THE MAIN THING IS TO BE
CLEAR IN WHAT YOU'RE SAYING.
THE COMMA, IF IT'S LEFT OUT,
SOMETIMES CAN BE A PROBLEM.
THERE'S A SLOGAN ON A T-SHIRT
GOING AROUND THAT "LET'S EAT,
GRANDMA," AND "LET'S EAT
GRANDMA."
SO IT IS KIND OF A MATTER OF
LIFE AND DEATH.
>> BROWN: LIFE AND DEATH, COSMIC
IF YOU HAPPEN TO WORK AT A PLACE
LIKE THE NEW YORKER, THESE
THINGS ARE INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT,
RIGHT?
>> THEY ARE IMPORTANT.
>> Brown: SO GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE.
>> OH, WELL I'M GOING TO JUMP
INTO FICTION, THINKING OF THE
WRITER GEORGE SAUNDERS, WHO
WRITES IN THE VOICE OF SOMEBODY
WHO'S NOT VERY EDUCATED, AND HE
WOULD WRITE, I THINK THERE'S A
DANGLER IN ONE OF HIS SENTENCES,
"WHILE PICKING KIDS UP AT
SCHOOL, MOTHER FELL OFF PARK
AVENUE."
AND THAT MEANS, WHILE I WAS
PICKING UP THE KIDS AT SCHOOL,
THE MOTHER FELL OFF, OR WHILE
PICKING UP KIDS AT SCHOOL, I
NOTICED THAT MOTHER FELL OFF.
IT'S A DANGLER.
BUT IT'S ALSO POSSIBLE TO SEE
THAT IN THE MIND OF THE
NARRATOR, IT'S EXACTLY WHAT HE
WANTS TO SAY.
SO YOU DON'T CHANGE THAT.
WE USE THE SERIAL COMMA BECAUSE
IT'S IMPORTANT SOMETIMES TO
PREVENT AMBIGUITY.
I HAVE A FEW EXAMPLES IN THE
BOOK, LIKE THE BIG ONE IS, "WE
INVITED THE STRIPPERS, JFK AND
STALIN."
AND WITHOUT A COMMA AFTER JFK,
IT READS AS IF JFK AND STALIN
ARE THE STRIPPERS.
I ALSO LIKE TO MAKE THE POINT,
BECAUSE PEOPLE ASK ME ABOUT THE
SERIAL COMMA SO OFTEN, THAT IT'S
NOT, IT'S NOT A MORAL DECISION.
YOU CAN DECIDE WHETHER TO USE
THE SERIAL COMMA OR NOT USE THE
SERIAL COMMA, AND AS LONG AS
YOU'RE CONSISTENT.
THE NEW YORKER PUTS ALL THE
EXTRAS IN THAT IT CAN, THE
DIAERESIS, THE TWO DOTS OVER THE
SECOND O IN COOPERATE.
WE LE THIKAT KIND OF THING, IT
KEEPS US OFF THE STREET.
>> Brown: IS IT HARD FOR YOU TO
BE ALIVE WHEN YOU KNOW THE RULES
SO WELL?
>> NO, IT'S NOT THAT BAD. FOR
ONE THING, I'M ONLY ON DUTY WHEN
I'M ON DUTY.
THERE ARE SONGS, THOUGH, LIKE
THAT FAMOUS DOORS SONG, "WHEN
THE STARS FALL FROM THE SKY-"
>> Brown: "FOR YOU AND I."
>> --I KIND OF WANT TO PUT MY
HANDS OVER MY EARS WHEN I HEAR
THAT.
>> REALLY, I SEE YOU, YOU'RE
CRINGING.
>> THERE ARE A FEW THINGS THAT,
BUT I LIVE THROUGH THEM.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT IN THE AGE
OF SPELL CHECK AND AUTOCORRECT,
ARE YOU WORRIED ABOUT WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN TO OUR LANGUAGE
AND OUR WRITING?
>> I WORRY A LITTLE WITH SPELL
CHECK THAT KIDS WON'T EVER
BOTHER TO LOOK WORDS UP IN THE
DICTIONARY.
YOU LEARN A LOT JUST BY POKING
AROUND IN THE DICTIONARY.
AND EVERYBODY IS A WRITER W.NO
EVERYBODY USES EMAIL AND HAS
FACEBOOK GES PAAND TWEETS.
THE APOSTROPHE IS ON ITS WAY
OUT, I THINK, BECAUSE YOU HAVE
TO SWITCH SCREENS WHEN YOU'RE
TEXTING TO USE AN APOSTROPHE.
IT'S A LOT OF TROUBLE FOR
IMTIENPAT YOUNG PEOPLE TO GO
EXTRA SCREENS JUST TO PUT IN AN
APOSTROPHE IN ORDER TO WRITE
"WON'T."
>> SO IT'S OKAY IN TWITTER, BUT
IT'S STILL NOT GOING TO GET BY
AT THE "NEW YORKER."
>> ON THE PRINTED PAGE, IT'S
BEST TO HAVE EVERYTHING, YOU
KNOW, STILL MIND YOUR "P'S" AND
"Q'S."
DOT YOUR "I'S" AND CROSS YOUR
T'S."
>> Brown: BETWEEN YOU AND ME,
CONFESSIONS OF A COMMA QUEEN
WITH HER CROWN.
MARY NORRIS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: FINALLY OUR
"NEWSHOUR" NEWS OF THE DAY.
TONIGHT IT'S NEWLY DISCOVER
FOOTAGE OF AMILA EARHART, FILM
BELIEVED TO BE THE FINAL FILM
RECORDED OF HER BEFORE HER PLANE
DISAPPEARED AND LIKELY CRASHED
INTO THE SOUTH PACIFIC.
IN THE SPRING OF 1937, THIS FILM
WAS TAKEN OF EARHART AT A
WAS TAKEN OF EARHART AT A SMALL
AIRPORT IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA.
SHOT WITH A 16 MILIMETER CAMERA,
THE FILM SHOWS A CASUALLY
DRESSED AND RELAXED EARHART
WALKING AROUND AND CLIMBING
ABOARD HER PLANE.
THAT DAY, HER PERSONAL
PHOTOGRAPHER, ALBERT BRESNICK,
SNAPPED THESE FAMOUS PHOTOS.
AT THE SAME TIME, BRESNICK'S
BROTHER SHOT THE GRAINY FILM AND
THE BRESNICKS KEPT THE FILM
PRIVATELY AT THEIR HOME FOR
NEARLY EHT IGDECADES.
NOW, THE THREE-MINUTE-LONG FILM
IS BEING RELEASED ALONG WITH A
NEW BOOK CALLED "AMELIA
EARHART'S LAST PHOTO SHOOT."
THE FIRST WOMAN TO FLY SOLO
ACROSS THE ATLANTIC, EARHART
ATTEMPTED TO FLY AROUND THE
WORLD WITH HER NAVIGATOR, FRED
NOONAN.
BUT THEIR PLANE DISAPPEARED ON
JULY 2, 1947 WITHOUT A TRACE.
SORRY, THE PLANE DISAPPEARED IN
1937.
>> Wooduff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, 225 CAMERAS SET UP
ACROSS FOUR HUNDRED-SQUARE MILES
OF EASTERN AFRICA HAVE CAPTURED
MORE THAN A MILLION ANIMAL
PHOTOS, IT'S PART OF A PROJECT
TO CATALOG THE SPECIES OF THE
SERENGETI.
WE COLLECTED A HANDFUL OF THESE
IMAGES, FROM MONKEY "SELFIES" TO
GAZELLE "FAMILY PORTRAITS," AND
YOU CAN SEE THEM ON OUR HOME
PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
TONIGHT ON CHARLIE ROSE, LATE
NIGHT TELEVISION'S JAMES CORDEN,
AND TRIPLE CROWN-WINNING JOCKEY
VICTOR ESPINOZ.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE CONTINUE OUR
IRAQ SERIES, "NO END IN SIGHT."
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGNAI
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.